.. vim: ft=rst sts=2 sw=2 tw=82
.. default-role:: literal

**NAME**
  **anarchinst** - non-interactive installer for **ArchLinux**

**SYNOPSIS**

::

  anarchinst --help | --example | <configfile>

**DESCRIPTION**
  *anarchinst* is a non-interactive installer for `ArchLinux`_
  meant to be run from the ArchLinux live DVD.  It is driven by
  a configuration file using `Zsh`_ syntax.  A commented example
  configuration is available by running `anarchinst --example`.

  *anarchinst* is suitable for the simple scenario of installing over
  a single harddisk in either (legacy) BIOS or (modern, cough), UEFI
  systems.

  When run with a `<configfile>` argument, *anarchinst* will first report
  the requested and current configuration of the underlying system.
  If it finds any errors in `<configfile>` or incompatibilities
  with the system in question, *anarchinst* will abort.

  When the configuration has been validated, *anarchinst* will

  * (optionally) overwrite the disklabel on `$disk`
  * (optionally) create slices in the disklabel
  * (optionally) create filesystems in the new slices
  * mount the filesystems under `$destdir`
  * install `$packages` under `$destdir`
  * configure the tree under `$destdir` for `$hostname`,
    `$locale`, `$timezone`
  * unmount the `$destdir` tree

  If all goes well you were lucky and should have an ArchLinux
  system installed on `$disk`.

.. _`ArchLinux`: https://www.archlinux.org
.. _`Zsh`: http://zsh.sf.net

**Disklabels**
  *anarchinst* supports two kinds of disklabels: `gpt` and `msdos`.

  :gpt:
    Only supported on UEFI systems.  Make sure `$slices`
    specifies a separate slice for `/boot`, and that it's `fat`;
    this is the so called ESP, EFI System Partition.
    *anarchinst* installs SYSLINUX under `/boot/EFI/syslinux`.

  :msdos:
    Supported on both UEFI and BIOS systems.  `/boot` needs not
    be a separate slice, but SYSLINUX is reported to break btrfs
    volumes if installed into that.  Other filesystem types should
    be ok.  *anarchinst* installs SYSLINUX under `/boot/syslinux`.

  :keep:
    Supported on both UEFI and BIOS systems.
    Keeps existing disklabel, whether it's `gpt` or `msdos`.

**OPTIONS**
  -h, --help
    print this message and exit

  --example
    print an example configuration and exit

**ASSUMPTIONS**
  *anarchinst* makes several assumptions, make sure they hold before
  using this tool:

  * you don't mind obliterating the contents of the target device
  * you want to use Syslinux
  * the hardware (BIOS) clock is set to UTC

**TERMINOLOGY**
  :disklabel:
    also partition table

  :slice:
    also partition

**ENVIRONMENT**
  *anarchinst* itself uses no environment variables.  It is, however,
  implemented in terms of third-party commands which do use them.
  This means that *anarchinst* may be influenced by environment
  variables used by the commands listed in the SEE ALSO section,
  possibly others.
  When in doubt, try using *anarchinst* under `env -i`.

**SEE ALSO**
  extlinux(1), syslinux(1), zsh(1), btrfs(8), efibootmgr(8), mkfs(8),
  mkswap(8), parted(8).

**CONFORMING TO**
  Its own whims only.

**HISTORY**
  *anarchinst* first appeared out of nowhere.

**AUTHORS**
  Roman Neuhauser <neuhauser@sigpipe.cz>

**BUGS**
  In the best GNU/Linux tradition, *anarchinst* has no bugs at all,
  only incompatible interfaces and conflicting implementations.
  If it breaks you can keep the pieces.

  Support for reusing existing slices or coexistence with other
  installations on the same drive needs more testing.

  Networking setup is nonexistent.  The ArchLinux live media
  configures all devices formerly known as `ethX` for DHCP,
  so this works without any user intervention.  For wireless,
  `wifi-menu` WORKSFORME.

  Networking setup in the target system is also still coming.

  Patches are welcome at
  <https://github.com/roman-neuhauser/anarchinst/>.
